our theme all year from 2nd Corinthians,
been preaching through the book of 2nd Corinthians
on Sunday mornings and have greatly appreciated
the opportunity to do that
and excited for the study this evening.
1st Peter chapter two,
if you have your Bible with you, 1st Peter chapter two,
and we'll begin there,
we'll be looking at a number of passages of scripture
this evening and looking forward to the opportunity
to be encouraged this evening through the truth
that God has given to us in his word.
Aren't you thankful that we have a Bible
and what a blessing that God has given to us.
The Bible, he preserved it for us,
it's profitable for us and we are so blessed.
And 1st Peter chapter number two, beginning in verse 21,
the Bible says, for even here unto where you called,
because Christ also suffered for us,
leaving us an example that you should follow his steps.
Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth,
who when he was reviled, reviled not again,
when he suffered, he threatened not,
but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously.
Who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree,
that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness
by whose stripes ye were healed.
Notice verse 25, for ye were as sheep going astray,
but are now returned unto the shepherd
and bishop of your souls.
For the last several weeks,
we've been studying the name of God, Jehovah-Ra.
We see that introduced to us in Psalm 23,
when David, who himself had had the privilege
of being a shepherd, penned those words,
the Lord is my shepherd.
The name Jehovah-Ra simply means the Lord, my shepherd.
And as we've had the opportunity now
for a number of weeks to study through
and to look at what the Bible teaches us
about what our shepherd does for us,
I believe that we've been encouraged.
I have been encouraged.
I hope that you've been encouraged.
We find in the Old Testament
that Jehovah God is revealed to his people
as being their shepherd.
And what a blessing for the people of God
to understand that they have a shepherd.
And of course, as we mentioned throughout the 23rd Psalm,
the precious truth is that David says,
the Lord is my shepherd and he is the shepherd.
And it's important that we understand
that he is my shepherd.
The Lord Jesus Christ is God in flesh.
And we're thankful that the Bible teaches
plainly and clearly the deity of Christ.
And we understand the truth of the incarnation,
that Jesus is 100% God and 100% man.
And we find that he came to this earth to die for our sins.
And we find that as you study the New Testament,
that you discover that God provides for us three truths
regarding the fact that Jesus is our shepherd.
And I've titled the message simply that this evening,
Jesus, our shepherd.
We see it here in 1 Peter 2.
We understand as I begin reading in verse number 21,
that the Lord Jesus Christ left us an example.
We study his life and we understand
that as you have an opportunity to read the gospel records,
you're privileged with the opportunity to see
how God has revealed to us the important aspects
of the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ
so that we could understand how we too are to behave.
We find that he went to that cruel cross,
he bare our sins in his body.
And we find that he says in verse 25,
we were for ye were as sheep going astray,
but now, but are now returned unto the shepherd
and bishop of your souls.
For a few minutes this evening,
I wanna focus on these three revelations
that God gives us in the New Testament
about Jesus, our shepherd.
Number one, turn to John 10, if you will,
and we see the good shepherd.
We made reference to this a couple of times
during our study over the last few weeks,
we would reference this truth.
But I want you to see this evening
that as we look in John chapter number 10,
begin to understand that as our good shepherd,
Jesus gave his life for the sheep.
We find that in verse number 10,
beginning in John 10 and verse 10,
the Bible says the thief cometh not,
but for to steal and to kill and to destroy.
Notice the contrast.
Jesus says, I am come that they might have life
and that they might have it more abundantly.
I am the good shepherd.
And he says this,
the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.
But he that is an hireling and not the shepherd
whose own the sheep are not,
seeeth the wolf coming and leaveth the sheep and fleeth,
and the wolf catcheth them and scattereth the sheep.
The hireling fleeth because he's an hireling
and careth not for the sheep.
I am the good shepherd and know my sheep
and am known of mine.
As the father knoweth me, even so know I the father,
and I lay down my life for the sheep.
So we find that he says in verse number 11,
that as the good shepherd, he giveth his life for the sheep.
You find in verse 15 that he says,
I lay down my life for the sheep.
We understand that Jesus Christ
willingly went to that cross of Calvary.
And I'm so thankful that he was willing to go
and to take my place and to take your place.
And we understand that he bore the sin of the world.
And as we studied recently in 2 Corinthians 5,
for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin,
that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.
And we find that Jesus Christ
willingly gave his life for the sheep.
He says in verse 16,
and other sheep I have, which are not of this fold,
them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice,
and there shall be one fold and one shepherd.
Therefore doth my father love me
because I lay down my life, that I might take it again.
So we find again, he references
that he's going to lay down his life,
but you notice the reference to the resurrection
at the end of verse 17, that I might take it again.
He says this in verse 18, no man taketh it from me.
I remember as a senior in high school, as I shared,
I'd just been saved for a very short period of time,
probably six weeks or so.
And I was talking to a fellow classmate.
I said, man, Jesus died for you
because he loves you so much.
And he said, he didn't die for me because he wanted to.
He was murdered.
He was killed by the Romans and he was arrested
and he had no choice.
And I said, oh, please understand the Bible teaches us
that he said, no man taketh it from me.
He willingly went to the cross of Calvary.
He could have called scores, legions of angels,
but he chose to go to that cross.
He says, I lay it down of myself.
I have power to lay it down
and I have power to take it again.
This commandment have I received of my father.
You remember that as we study and understand the truth
of the crucifixion, that Pilate was surprised
that he was dead already.
And that's because remember during those last sayings,
the Bible says that he, Christ says,
that he gave up the ghost
and he willingly laid down his life for the sheep.
And we understand that as we look at the truth
of the New Testament, that Jesus, our shepherd,
he has revealed to us as being the good shepherd
and the good shepherd gave his life for his sheep.
I want you to notice the parallel
and we'll keep going back to the Old Testament.
Look back if you will, at Psalm 22.
We've been studying now for a number of weeks in Psalm 23
as that Psalm is extremely familiar to us.
I'll reference some of that this evening
as we move through the message tonight.
But I want you to see in chapter 22,
the 22nd Psalm, really it's Psalm 22
that would have some prophecies with regard to Jesus,
the good shepherd, as he would give his life for the sheep.
We don't have time to read the entirety of it.
If you would just pick it up with me in verse number 14.
I am poured out like water
and all my bones are out of joint.
My heart is like wax.
It is melted in the midst of my bowels.
My strength is dried up like a pot's herd
and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws.
And thou hast brought me into the dust of death
for dogs have compassed me.
The assembly of the wicked have enclosed me.
They pierced my hands and my feet.
I may tell all my bones, they look and stare upon me.
They part my garments among them
and cast lots upon my vesture.
But be not thou far from me, O Lord, all my strength.
Haste thee to help me deliver my soul from the sword,
my darling, from the power of the dog.
We find that as we look at this passage of scripture
and we could really look at the entirety
of the 22nd Psalm, but we can see the prophetic aspect
of how our shepherd, the good shepherd,
the Lord Jesus Christ, would give his life for the sheep.
And I'm so thankful that as we could read the prophecies,
and obviously there's a number of prophecies
that we could look to in the Old Testament,
with regard to the Lord Jesus Christ
going to the cross of Calvary, specifically this evening,
when we understand this truth that Jesus is our shepherd,
that we find these three aspects,
and it's interesting as we'll look through them
this evening, how they relate to Psalm 22, 23, and 24.
And we find in Psalm 22, the aspect that is first given
to us is that first revelation that we come to
in the New Testament about Jesus,
and that is that he is our good shepherd.
And I'm so thankful that he gave his life for me.
Where would we be?
We sang that song this evening, he included me,
and what a blessing to understand that Jesus loved me,
loved you so much that he died for you,
that he died for me there on the cross of Calvary,
and he died for the sins of the world,
and what a blessing that we can tell people
about our good shepherd.
The Bible then reveals to us,
turn over to the book of Hebrews, if you will,
and look at.
book of Hebrews, and we'll look at chapter 13, Hebrews chapter 13, and look
at this second truth that God gives us in the New Testament with regard to the
Lord Jesus Christ, Jesus our Shepherd. And here in Hebrews 13, we find that He is
referred to as our Great Shepherd, our Great Shepherd. So we find in John
chapter number 10 that Jesus, the Good Shepherd, that He gives His life for the
sheep. We find that the Great Shepherd, as we look in Hebrews 13, verse 20 and 21,
notice what the Bible says, now the God of peace, by the way, aren't you thankful
that He's the God of peace? It's not really the message this evening, but oh
how we need peace. Remember Jesus said this in John 16, He said, in me you have
peace. In the world you shall have tribulation, but in me you have peace. And
then He tells them this, be of good cheer, I have overcome the world. And what a
blessing to know that Jesus said, my peace give I unto thee. Not as the world
giveth, He gives us His peace, a peace that passeth all understanding. And here
the Bible says, now the God of peace, notice this, that brought again from the
dead our Lord Jesus, that Great Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the
everlasting covenant, make you perfect in every good work to do His will,
working in you that which is well-pleasing in His sight, through Jesus
Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. Jesus Christ is the Good
Shepherd, He giveth His life for the sheep, but as our Great Shepherd we find
that Jesus Christ conquered death. We see the reference, the emphasis that is
placed here with using the phrase our Great Shepherd, or that title if you will,
that the resurrection is being emphasized. And we begin to understand
that we serve a risen Savior and what a blessing to know that He lives and that
He is conquered sin, death, and the grave. Notice in verse 21 the benefits and the
working in you and in me as His children. It says, make you perfect in every good
work to do His will, working in you. Aren't you thankful that He's working in
us? We sing that song, He's still working on me. And the reality is that Jesus is
God and He as Creator. The Bible teaches us wonderful truth about creation. God
said and it was so, but we find that He's still working on us and He's working in
us. Every time we have an opportunity to open our Bibles and to read the truth of
God's Word, every time we have an opportunity to sit in a service and hear
the teaching and preaching of God's Word, the Holy Spirit of God uses the
Word of God in the hearts of His people and He's working in us. And what a
blessing to know that He's working in us. I'm reminded of what Paul said to the
believers in Philippi as he's seeking to encourage them in chapter 1 in verse 6.
He says, being confident of this very thing that He which hath begun a good
work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He's working in us. I
wonder tonight, can you identify, can you look at your life and can you see where
God is working in your life? I hope that you can. If you have a kind of a blank
stare type of a response to that question this evening, I would encourage you. You
got to dig into the Word of God. You got to get alone with God and have some time
of examination. Why? Because God wants to work in your life. He wants to work in my
life. We never come to a place where we can say we've arrived. No, no, no. He's
gonna keep working in us and working in us and working in us. The Apostle Paul,
after writing so much of the New Testament, nearing the end of his
life and entering into the presence of his Savior, he says that I may
know Him. And he has this desire, this longing to know the Lord in an even
more intimate and deep relationship. And what a blessing. And the Bible says make
you perfect in every good work to do His will, working in you that which is well
pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ to whom be glory forever and ever.
Amen. Notice it says that He's working in us and it says this, to do to that which
is well pleasing, notice, in His sight. Not in the sight of our society, not in
the sight of some other, you know, reference point. No, in the sight of Jesus
Christ. The reality is that we find that God tells us in Ephesians 5 and verse
number 10 that we're to prove what is acceptable unto the Lord and that we
understand that God has given to us this Bible and how blessed we are to have a
Bible that we can understand what pleases Him and we can understand what
does not please Him. And it says that we would be well pleasing. He's working in
us that which is well pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ to whom be
glory forever and ever. Amen. We serve a risen Savior and we think about Jesus as
our Great Shepherd. What is emphasized is that Jesus conquered death. We're gonna
go to Psalm 23, but before we do, since we're here in Hebrews, look at Hebrews
chapter 2 just very quickly and look at Hebrews 2 before we make our way over to
Psalm 23. And here in Hebrews chapter 2, we're reminded of this wonderful truth
that our Great Shepherd indeed conquered death. Yes, our Good Shepherd died
for us, but He didn't stay dead. He rose, conquering sin, death, and the grave. Verse
14, notice it says this, for as much then as the children are partakers of flesh
and blood, He also Himself likewise took part of the same. Notice that through
death He might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil, and
deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to
bondage. What a joy to know personally and intimately the One who conquered
death. So we're gonna face death. If we're gonna face death, we better know the One
who conquered death. And the reality is that here, not only does it say that
through death He might destroy him that had power of death, that is the
devil, but then He talks about the deliverance that He provides to people.
Notice He says this, that were, who through fear of death were all their
lifetime subject to bondage. You know, there are people that are scared of
dying. The thought of death causes people to fear greatly if they don't know the
One who conquered death. But see, for us, if you know the Lord is my shepherd and
you understand that Jesus Christ, our Good Shepherd, that He died for us, that
as our Great Shepherd that He rose, conquering sin, death, and the grave, I
don't have to fear death. Remember the Apostle Paul says to be absent from the
body is to be present with the Lord. Remember the Apostle Paul said that for
to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. He said this as he's writing to the
believers in Philippi that he was in a straight betwixt two, having a desire to
depart to be with Christ, which is far better. See, for us as saved people, if we
know the Lord is my shepherd, I don't have to fear death. It may not be that
we're excited about the process of dying, I understand that, but the reality is I
don't fear death, for I know the One who conquered death. I can remember prior to
being saved. I don't know if you can remember prior to being saved, but I
remember being afraid of dying. I remember someone talking to me as a
young person, what happens for you to die? In fact, I remember driving in Southern
California when my dad was stationed there at Camp Pendleton and driving to
school every day over in Fallbrook, and I remember driving through that Naval
Weapons Station and that hilly road with all of those large ravines, and I
remember driving and thinking, if I crash and die, I'm going to hell. I was scared
of dying, but I know the One who conquered death, and because He conquered
death, He's working in us actively. Notice in Psalm 23, I'm not gonna belabor the
point because we've studied and looked at Psalm 23 many times over the last
couple of weeks, but I want you to notice, again, it's a familiar Psalm, probably
one of the most familiar passages of Scripture in all of the Bible, not a
single verse of Scripture. Maybe that would be John 3 16 or some other verse,
but as far as a passage, Psalm 23. I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago.
I've been to funerals of people that have never stepped in church one time in
their life, and they have those little cards that they give out at the funeral,
and they got Psalm 23 printed on the back of it. It's just such a common,
familiar passage of Scripture, but oh, for the believer, it's so rich, it's so
powerful. David says, the Lord is my, that possessive truth that God gives to us in
understanding the truth of relationship. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.
Notice he continues, he maketh me to lie down in green pastures, he leadeth me
beside the still waters, he restoreth my soul, he leadeth me in the paths of
righteousness for his name's sake.
Notice in verse number four,
though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
I will fear no evil, why?
For thou art with me, thy rod, thy staff, they comfort me.
Now remember, he says,
though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
we know the one, the great shepherd, he conquered death.
Remember 1 Corinthians 15 in verse 58,
or sorry, in 55 through 57 there.
O death, where is thy sting?
Right, he conquered death.
And we find that he says here in verse number five,
thou preparest a table before me
in the presence of mine enemies,
thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over.
Because he conquered death,
he's doing all of this in our lives.
And we're finding his presence
and his protection and his provision.
He's actively at work in our lives, why?
Because he conquered death.
He conquered death, he's our great shepherd.
We see in verse six, surely goodness and mercy
shall follow me all the days of my life.
Think about that.
I don't know how many days we have on this earth.
I don't know how many days we have
as we look around the world in which we live.
We see people regularly that are younger than us
and that are older than us and the same age.
And we understand that death
has no respecter of persons or age.
And I don't know how many days I have,
but I find the truth here
that surely goodness and mercy shall follow me
all the days of my life.
And then he says this,
and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
And so as I walk this pilgrim pathway, so to speak,
as I live on this earth,
because I know the Lord Jesus Christ is my good shepherd
and as my great shepherd, he conquered death,
he conquered the grave,
that he lives and he's working in me,
that his goodness and his mercy will be upon me.
And I find that when this life ends,
it's just a quick transition from life here on earth
to life in heaven.
And I will certainty, confidence,
dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
Isn't that precious?
There's a connection between verse one and verse six.
Only those that can truly say the Lord is my shepherd
will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
Those that know Christ personally,
they'll dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
And what a blessing to understand that our great shepherd,
that he conquered death and that he lives and he reigns.
We find that the New Testament provides us
with one more truth with regard to Jesus, our shepherd.
Turn over the wheel to the book of 1 Peter.
1 Peter chapter five.
And I want you to notice this third and final aspect
of what Jesus tells, or what, yeah,
what the Lord tells us about Jesus, our shepherd.
And we find here that in this passage of scripture,
Peter is speaking and he's addressing
the other pastors or elders.
Notice it begins in verse number one
of 1 Peter chapter five.
The elders which are among you I exhort,
who am also an elder and a witness
of the sufferings of Christ and also a partaker
of the glory that shall be revealed.
Isn't it awesome how all three aspects
are just kind of categorized in one verse?
The sufferings of Christ, that's the good shepherd,
is it not?
And then you see where it talks about partaker
of the glory that shall be revealed.
And you're looking all the way toward the truth
of the third aspect, our chief shepherd.
He tells them that in the presence to feed the flock
of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof,
not by constraint but willingly,
not for filthy lucre but of a ready mind,
neither as being lords over God's heritage
but being in samples to the flock.
And so these that are being written to,
Peter says that he's an elder
and he's writing to these elders
and he's talking to them and encouraging them
with regard to their responsibility
to feed the flock of God, to give the oversight
and what their responsibility was as an elder or a pastor.
We find that in verse number four,
notice what he says,
and when, not if, and when the chief shepherd shall appear,
ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away.
The chief shepherd is the third aspect
that God gives us in his word with regard to this truth,
Jesus our shepherd, as our good shepherd,
he died for us, as our great shepherd,
he rose conquering death for us,
and as our chief shepherd,
Jesus is coming back for his sheep.
And oh, how that ought to cause us to rejoice.
We find that the entirety, if you will,
of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ,
he was born to die, he came to this earth
so that he could die in our place,
he left the throne room of heaven and he died
and he rose again and he's seated in the heavenlies
and we understand that at one moment
and only known by the Lord that he will return
and here it says, when the chief shepherd shall appear,
ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away.
I believe that Peter had great confidence
about this truth that he's writing about.
Remember Peter, he was in that inner circle
and we find that Jesus, there were multitudes
that followed him and there were the 12
that he ministered to as his disciples
but then there are three that are kind of the inner circle,
Peter, James and John.
We find that the Lord allowed for them to go up
on that Mount of Transfiguration
and they saw Jesus glorified and Peter was there
and of course he's normally the one that would speak up
and say something and he's like,
hey, it's good that we're here,
we should make three tabernacles
and he didn't really know what he was saying
and we find that he hears the voice of God,
he mentions this as he writes in the next epistle
and we find here that he heard Jesus speak in John 14.
Remember, he was the one there in John 13
when Jesus is washing the feet of the disciples,
Peter again was the outspoken one, was he not?
I mean, that's his mode, right?
That's what he does, he's the outspoken one.
When Jesus says, whom do men say that I am?
He's the one that steps up and answers the question.
We find that then when Jesus is washing the feet
of the disciples in John 13, he says, not so, Lord.
And then he says, well, not my feet only, but everywhere.
I mean, he goes from one extreme to the next
and Jesus is teaching him about the importance
of having his feet washed
and Jesus is teaching on humility
and the importance of being cleansed for our daily service
and then we find that as we enter into the 14th chapter
because what, Jesus had explained to them
that he would be going to Jerusalem
and he'd be betrayed and he would die
and all that would take place and he says,
let not your heart be troubled,
to begin chapter 14 of the book of John
and Peter heard these words
when Jesus said that he was gonna come again.
Peter heard Jesus speak the words,
let not your heart be troubled, you believe in God,
believe also in me.
In my father's house are many mansions,
if it were not so, I would have told you,
I go to prepare a place for you
and if I go and prepare a place for you,
I will come again and receive you unto myself
that where I am there ye may be also.
Peter heard that with his own ears.
Jesus cannot lie.
Then Peter, obviously many things happen
from hearing those words that I just referenced
from John 14, one through three,
to going through the arrest and all that took place
with the scourging and the mocking and the beating
and the crucifixion and the resurrection
and all that takes place and the 40 days
and then the ascension.
And Peter was there also.
And the Bible tells us that they stood there
as Jesus ascended into heaven in Acts chapter one,
you can read it, and they watch and the angels come,
these men in white apparel and they say,
why stands ye gazing up into heaven?
This same Jesus.
What's gonna happen?
He's gonna come again, right?
So Peter, he heard Jesus speak this in John 14,
he hears the instruction of Jesus,
he sees Jesus ascend to heaven,
he hears again the confirmation with regard to the return
and then as Peter is writing under the inspiration
of the Holy Spirit of God, he says,
when the chief shepherd shall appear,
ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away.
Our chief shepherd, he's coming back for us.
And what a glorious truth that God gives us in his word.
And we find that it's in Psalm 24, turn there quickly,
we looked at some references in Psalm 22
with regard to the good shepherd
and the prophecies that are taking place there
in chapter 23 is the great shepherd
and now in the 24th Psalm is the chief shepherd,
our chief shepherd.
Notice Psalm 24, it begins this way.
The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof,
the world and they that dwell therein.
For he hath founded it upon the seas
and established it upon the floods.
Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord
or who shall stay?
in his holy place, he that hath clean hands and a pure heart,
who hath not lifted up his soul into vanity nor sworn deceitfully.
By the way, it's only through the blood of Christ
that we can have that imputed righteousness.
He says in verse number five, he shall receive the blessing from the Lord
and righteousness from the God of his salvation.
This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob, Selah.
Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors.
Notice this, and the King of glory shall come in.
Who is this King of glory? The Lord, strong and mighty.
The Lord, mighty in battle.
Lift up your heads, O ye gates, even lift them up, ye everlasting doors,
and the King of glory shall come in.
Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts.
He is the King of glory, Selah.
We begin to understand that it is the Lord Jesus Christ
is giving to us this truth with regard to his own work,
and we understand that he's our good shepherd, he's our great shepherd,
but he's also the chief shepherd, and when he shall appear,
we understand the reference with regard to his coming back.
I mentioned it on Sunday evening as we dealt with the rapture,
and we talked about the dual aspect of the fact that he's coming for his saints,
and then he's coming with his saints, and we talked about
and looked at a number of passages of scripture dealing with that truth,
and we understand that he's coming for his saints, we'll meet him in the air.
If we're still alive, we understand that the dead in Christ shall rise first,
then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds
to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord.
We find that the Bible then teaches that he's coming with his saints.
When does that happen? Well, we know that that happens at the end of the tribulation,
Revelation 19, the return of Christ with his saints,
and we understand that it will enter into the battle of Armageddon
and then the millennial reign of Christ, and we find that at the end of the tribulation
that he, Christ, our chief shepherd, will establish his millennial reign,
and what a blessing to understand this evening and to kind of put the whole thing together,
and you begin to understand this truth of God's word with regard to the deity of Christ,
the fact that in the Old Testament, these individuals, they were told many things about God,
and God reveals himself through his names, as we've been studying here on Wednesday evenings,
and many names in which God gives. Why? Because there's so much about our God,
so many aspects, there's not one name that satisfies and clearly communicates to us all that he is,
and so he uses a variety of names in order to help us understand who he is,
and as he uses this name Jehovah-Raw, revealing it to us through the vessel David,
who himself was a shepherd, and how easily he could relate to what it meant.
When the Lord says, the Lord, my shepherd, David says, I know what it is to be a shepherd.
I'm understanding this. He's able to, as he's writing this 23rd Psalm,
he's understanding his own life and responsibility, but then understanding that Jehovah, God, he,
the Lord, is my shepherd. Then as we go through and look at the whole of the Bible,
and proving again the deity of Christ, that Jesus is God, that we see that he's the good shepherd.
Aren't you glad he gave his life for you? He's the great shepherd. He didn't stay dead.
I often refer to it as a borrowed tomb. Why? Just for a few days.
We have the promise. Jesus said plainly, destroy this temple. In three days I'll raise it up again.
They thought he was speaking of Herod's temple. No, no, no. Talking about the temple of his body.
And sure enough, the stone was rolled away. Amen? The grave that could not keep him.
He conquered the grave. He conquered death. And we're going to face death one day.
But I'm thankful to know the one that's my great shepherd that conquered death.
And then he's coming back. He's the chief shepherd. When? The chief shepherd shall appear.
Praise the Lord. The hope that we have.
We speak in the book of Titus where Paul talks about the blessed hope.
The blessed hope. This confident expectation that we have as the people of God
that one day our chief shepherd shall appear.
I know often we talk about in terms of, I hope that I'm still here when he does.
And my mentor, he often says, and you've heard him say it as he's preached here over the years,
that I'm not looking for the undertaker but the upper taker.
And what a blessing to understand the truth. But we look here and we, listen, the Lord is my shepherd.
The Lord is my shepherd. And this evening, I think now for five weeks,
we've studied this name of God, Jehovah-Raw. It's so rich. It's so deep. It's so precious.
And I hope this evening when you understand as you go through life and you deal with all that you deal with in life,
that you're reminded the Lord, the Lord is my shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd.
The New Testament, he talks about leaving the ninety and nine, going after the one.
Aren't you thankful for that? He loves us. He loves us. He's not a hireling.
When the enemy comes, he doesn't flee. No. He loves us with an everlasting love.
And I'm looking forward to the appearance of our chief shepherd. Let's pray together.
Father, we love you. We thank you so much for loving us.
We thank you for the privilege that you've given to us to gather this evening to worship you.
We thank you that we could sing and we thank you that we could open your word.
And now, Lord, we enter into our time of prayer and we thank you for the privilege.
We thank you that you're a God who hears and answers. We thank you that you're actively working in our lives.
And I pray that you'd help us to be faithful. Lord, help us to be more like thee.
I pray that even as we'd evaluate our lives, that we'd be able to identify areas in which you are working in our lives
that you're causing us to be conformed to the image of your dear son, Lord.
I pray that you would bless our time of prayer. We'll thank you for it. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.